---
layout: page
title: glossary
description: The Terms You Need to Know
---


SR&ED Glossary
==============




The scientific research and experimental development (SR&ED) glossary is provided for information purposes only as a plain language explanation of some of the terms used on the SR&ED Web pages, policies, forms and guides, when administering the SR&ED legislation under the federal *Income Tax Act* and the *Income Tax Regulations*. The SR&ED Glossary does not replace the law, either enacted or proposed.


![Attention] This is a scaled down glossary. We focused on the terms relevant to submitting a SR&ED submission for software, telecommunications, and technology. We have expanded on the government definitions with case law from the Tax Court of Canada, and we have provided visual representation of some of the definitions.


A
-

### Analysis


Analysis is the detailed examination of information to differentiate the various parts of a whole, determine their attributes, or explain their relationships. It is performed against the background of available knowledge and experience and it involves using tools such as models, graphs, statistics, tables, diagrams, mathematical formulas, and computer programs to express this knowledge or experience. Analysis is an integral part of the [systematic investigation or search](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#systmnv) and it can be used to generate or test a [hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss).


![Analysis](/assets/img/analysis.svg)



### Note**\
The following is the explanation of changes to this term as of April 24,
2015.

1.  “systematic investigation or search” replaced “scientific method” as
    the latter is no longer used in policy.

### Applied research

Applied research is work undertaken for the [advancement of scientific knowledge](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt)
with a specific practical application in view.





B
-

### Basic research

Basic research is work undertaken for the [advancement of scientific knowledge](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt) without a specific practical application in view.


### Beta site testing

Beta site testing is the [testing](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tstng) or validation of a product or process in a customer or an end-user facility or environment. Often, the need for this type of testing arises when the product or process that is being developed cannot be tested in isolation without the full process environment, or in cases where the developer is unable to simulate the specialized environment or conditions required to evaluate the product performance.

While beta site testing is a commonly used term, depending on the industry or [technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy) involved, other terms may be used to characterize the type of testing discussed above. These terms include for example, field testing, field investigation, field trials, validation, offsite testing, consumer testing, in-situ testing, end-use testing, final verification, or on-orbit or on-mission testing. The CRA uses the term beta site testing in a generic sense to refer to all of the above terms.


C
-




### Computer programming

Computer programming is preparing and coding operating instructions for a computer.



D
-

### Data collection / routine data collection

Data collection is the gathering of information using pre-determined procedures or protocols. The term routine data collection refers to data collection that is carried out for supporting normal business operations, and it is excluded from SR&ED work. Only the data collection work that is [commensurate with the needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt) and [directly in support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt) of [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch) or [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt) is eligible.



### Design

Design is work to transform concepts and ideas into a plan.

### Directly attributable to the prosecution of SR&ED

An [expenditure of a current nature](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#crrntntr) is directly attributable to the prosecution of SR&ED if it is:

- the cost of materials consumed or transformed in such prosecution (please refer to the [Materials for SR&ED Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/materials-policy.html)); for an employee who directly undertakes, supervises or supports the prosecution of SR&ED that would be, the portion of salaries or wages incurred, to the extent the amount can reasonably be considered in respect of such prosecution (please refer to the [SR&ED Salary or Wages Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html)) ; and

- for other expenditures that are, an expenditure, or portion of an
    expenditure, that is directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED
    and that would not have been incurred if such prosecution had not
    occurred. For more information on other expenditures (please refer
    to the [SR&ED Overhead and Other Expenditures
    Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html)).

### Directly attributable to the provision of premises, facilities or
equipment for the prosecution of SR&ED

The following expenditures are directly attributable to the provision of
premises, facilities or equipment for the prosecution of SR&ED in
Canada:

- the cost of the maintenance and upkeep of such premises, facilities
    or equipment; and

- other expenditures, or those portions of other expenditures, that
    are directly related to that provision and that would not have been
    incurred if those premises or facilities or that equipment had not
    existed
    ([incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl)).

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Overhead and Other
Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html).

### Directly engaged in SR&ED

Directly engaged in SR&ED refers to **hands on** work. Whether an
employee is directly engaged in SR&ED is based on the tasks that are
performed and not on the job title of the employee. For a list of tasks
to be considered as directly engaged, see Table 3 in the [T4088, Guide
to Form T661 Scientific Research and Experimental Development (SR&ED)
Expenditure
Claim](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4088.html).

For more information, please refer to [section 7.1 of the SR&ED Salary
or Wages
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html#s7_1).

### Directly in support

Within the context of SR&ED, work that is directly in support is work that was carried out specifically to perform the related [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch) or [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt).

### Directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED

To be [directly attributable to the prosecution of SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prsctn) [in Canada](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncnd) under the [traditional method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tmthd), an expenditure, or a portion of the expenditure, must first be an expenditure directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED in Canada.

For an expenditure to be considered directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED, the expenditure must connect with (that is, be related to) the SR&ED work, the SR&ED staff, or the machinery / equipment used by staff to perform SR&ED, and there must be no intervening step or intermediary between these elements and the expenditure (that is, directly). In other words, there must be a direct linkage of the expenditure to specific SR&ED work, staff, or machinery/equipment. Whether an expenditure is directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED is a question of fact.

If the expenditure is directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED in Canada and also [incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl) to such prosecution, it can be claimed as SR&ED [overhead and other expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrhd).


E
-

### Engineering

Engineering is the practice of designing, composing, evaluating,
advising, reporting, directing, or supervising the construction or
manufacturing of tangible products, assemblies, systems, or processes
that requires in-depth knowledge of engineering science and the proper,
safe, and economic application of engineering principles.

By definition, and according to sound professional practice, engineering practice does not involve [scientific or technological uncertainty](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrtnty) and is thus not eligible on its own. However, engineering work that is [commensurate with the needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt) and [directly in support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt) of [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch), or [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt) is eligible.

It is important to distinguish between work with respect to engineering and the work that engineers perform. Even though engineering practice is not eligible on its own, engineers can still be carrying out [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch), and [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt).

![Note] The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April 24, 2015.

1.  “routine engineering” was removed as there is no differentiation
    between engineering and routine engineering.
2.  A paragraph was added to clarify that even though engineering
    practice on its own is not eligible, engineers could still be
    performing basic research, applied research, or experimental
    development.


### Excluded work

The work identified in paragraphs (e)-(k) of the definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
is typically referred to as excluded work and, collectively, these
paragraphs are referred to as the exclusions. This work is not SR&ED.


### Experiment

An experiment is the test of a
[hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss)
under controlled conditions.

### Experimental development

Experimental development is work undertaken for the purpose of achieving [technological advancement](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt) for the purpose of creating new, or improving existing, materials, devices, products or processes, including incremental improvements thereto.

### Experimental production

Experimental production is defined as the [production output](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdtpt) of [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt) that is required to verify whether the objectives of the SR&ED work have been met or if a [technological advancement](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt) is achievable. The purpose of the [production run](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdcnrn), in which the output is experimental production, is to evaluate the technical aspects of the SR&ED project.


### Hypothesis

A hypothesis is an idea, consistent with known facts, that serves as a
starting point for further investigation to prove or disprove that idea.

![Note] The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April 24, 2015.

1.  The explanation has been simplified to improve understanding and
    readability.


K
-

### Key individuals

Key individuals are individuals who are directly involved in the project
and are essential to the progress of the project. These are individuals
who will have a good understanding of the scientific or technological
aspects of the project.


M
-

### Market research

Market research is the process of gathering and analyzing information
for the purpose of marketing a specific product, especially a new or
proposed product.

Market research is a major discipline of marketing whose main function
is intelligence gathering and analysis on a particular market, industry,
geography, customer group, competitors, or specific product or service
area.

The main uses of market research are: to position a business or
strategic program; to assist in new product or service launches; to
evaluate a product or service's strengths and weaknesses to help
determine how to improve a product or service; to determine customer
wants, needs, and desires; and to analyze competition.

Market research includes work such as:

- examining such factors as buying habits, use of leisure time,
    consumer needs or wants, and attitudes toward existing products and
    new products being test-marketed;

- market development and market verification;

- general market identification;

- market demonstration;

- identifying market preference;

- developing customer acceptance;

- gathering and evaluating data about consumers' preferences for
    products and services; and

- studying the requirements of specific markets, the acceptability of
    products, and methods of developing and exploiting new markets.

Work with respect to market research is specifically excluded from the
definition of [SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).


### Mathematical analysis

Mathematical analysis is the examination of a set of observations by
means of mathematical tools, principles, methods, or techniques.



O
-


### Operations research

Operations research is an approach involving the mathematical treatment
of a process, problem, or operation to determine its purpose and
effectiveness, and to gain maximum efficiency.


P
-


### Qualified SR&ED expenditures

The term qualified SR&ED expenditure is a term used on [Form T661, Scientific Research and Experimental Development (SR&ED) Expenditures Claim](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t661.html). The term represents all the amounts that qualify for calculating the [investment tax credit](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc) in a tax year, except for repayments of assistance and contract payments made in that year.





### Science

Science is a branch of study in which phenomena are observed and
classified and, usually, in which quantitative and qualitative relations
are formulated and verified.

### Scientific or technological advancement / scientific advancement /
advancement of scientific knowledge / technological advancement


Scientific or technological advancement is the generation of information
or the discovery of knowledge that advances the understanding of
scientific relations or technology. This definition encompasses the
definition of scientific advancement, advancement of scientific
knowledge and technological advancement. The only difference is that
scientific advancement and advancement of scientific knowledge relate to
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn)
whereas technological advancement relates to
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy).

For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.4 of the Eligibility
of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_4).

### Scientific or technological knowledge base

Scientific or technological knowledge base refers to the existing level
of
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy)
and scientific knowledge, and consists of the knowledge of the resources
within the company and sources available publicly.

The resources within the company include:

- technical knowledge, education, training, and experience of its
    personnel; and

- its technical capabilities typified by its current products,
    techniques, practices, and methodologies (for example, trade secrets
    and intellectual property).

Publicly available sources generally include scientific papers, journals, textbooks, and internet-based information sources as well as expertise accessible to the company (for example, through recruiting employees or hiring consultants or contractors). The company is expected to have information that is common knowledge at the time the work is performed. Common knowledge is knowledge available to professionals familiar with the specific areas of [science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn) or technology in question.

It is recognized that, although the knowledge available publicly is the
same for all companies, the scientific or technological knowledge base
may vary from company to company because the internal resources can vary
from company to company.

![Note] The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April 24, 2015.

1.  The term “technology base or level” has been changed to “scientific
    or technological knowledge base.” The change is to clarify that the
    concept applies equally to basic research, applied research, and
    experimental development.
2.  “publications” has been removed from the list of sources generally
    included in as publicly available. This was considered redundant.
3.  “consultants” was added to the list of examples of expertise
    accessible to the company.
4.  The last paragraph was modified for readability.

### Scientific or technological uncertainty

Scientific or technological uncertainty means whether a given result or objective can be achieved or how to achieve it, is not known or determined on the basis of generally available scientific or technological knowledge or experience. This definition encompasses the definition of scientific uncertainty, technological uncertainty and technological obstacle. The only difference is that scientific uncertainty relates to [science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn) whereas technological uncertainty and technological obstacle relate to [technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy).





### Style change

A style change is a change in the physical appearance or arrangement of
an article without altering its utility, efficiency, function, or
operating characteristics.

Work with respect to style changes is specifically excluded from the
definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).


### System uncertainty

System uncertainty is a form of [technological uncertainty](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrtnty) that can arise from or during the integration of technologies, the components of which are generally well known. This is due to unpredictable interactions between the individual components or sub-systems.

![Law] Justice D’Auray in Formadrain Inc. v. The Queen, 2017 TCC 42 at para. 93, 2017 DTC 1022, specified that “In other words, the lacking knowledge must really not exist in the base of scientific or technological knowledge, not simply be unknown to the claimant.”



### Systematic investigation or search

The systematic investigation or search called for in the definition of [SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd) is an approach that includes defining a problem, advancing a [hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss) towards resolving that problem, planning and testing the hypothesis by [experiment](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xprmnt) or [analysis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nlyss), and developing logical conclusions based on the results. For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.3 of the Eligibility of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_3).

![systemicInvestigation](/assets/img/systemicInvestigation.svg)

### Technology

Technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge and
principles.

While technology can be represented in physical form (patents,
procedures, design documents, manuals, etc.), it is not a physical
entity. It is the knowledge of how scientifically determined facts and
principles are embodied in the material, device, product, or process.

### Testing / routine testing

Testing is the application of procedures designed to observe, measure, or verify attributes, properties, or performance. The term routine testing refers to testing performed during the course of normal business operations, for example, testing carried out primarily to determine user acceptance, suitability, marketability, or competitive assessment. Work with respect to routine testing is specifically excluded from the definition of [SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd). Only the testing work that is [commensurate with the needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt) and [directly in support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt) of [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch) or [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt) is eligible.


### Traditional method

The traditional method involves specifically identifying and claiming
all overhead and other expenditures, directly attributable to the SR&ED
carried on in Canada, that the claimant incurred during the year.

For more information, please refer to the [Traditional and Proxy Methods
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/traditional-proxy-methods-policy.html).
